 Hey everyone, this is Phil Ebeneer from VideoSchoolOnline.com and today we are going to be looking at how baseball works and this is part of a complete course diving into how to watch baseball and how to become a fan of baseball and everything you need to know about how baseball works, this is just a quick overview and it might get a little crazy but let's get
 straight to it. Okay, so the basic premise of the game is that you have two teams that each have nine players and whoever scores the most runs wins. So runs are like points. How is it set up? Well the defense plays out in the field and they are situated in the field like so. Now they can move around a little bit but this is basically where they stand. You have your outfielders in the outfield, left field center field.
 in the right field, then you have your players in the infield. So first base, second base, third base, and short stop in the middle between third base and second base. So that's another good point is that this is first base, this is second base, this is third base, and this is home plate. So now that's the defense. The offense, one at a time, they go up to the plate.
 home plate and they are trying to back. They are trying to hit the ball into the field and they are trying to get on base. So if they hit the ball, say they hit the ball into the field, they are able to run to first base. Okay? So they have to run to first base, touch first base and then only after they touch first base, they can run to the second base. And then after they touch second base.
 to third after they touch third base they can go home and if they get get all the way to home they score a run or a point okay but it's not so easy because while you're hitting the ball into the outfield well first of all the pitcher is throwing 95 to 100 mile per our fast balls past you and it's really hard to hit they throw balls that curve
 of that spin, that dip, duck, fly, do crazy things. So it's first of all, it's hard to hit the ball. So they're trying to get you out. And if they get the ball past you and the right spot, or you swing and miss three times, that's an out. But say you do hit it in the outfield, the players are trying to catch the ball and then throw it to first base before you get there. Or to whatever base that you...
 you are going to, and they're trying to get the ball there before you. So either they get the ball to the base before you, or they tag you with the ball. So if they have the ball in their glove or in their hand, they can tag you with it and you are out. Now, there's lots of different rules that go into this, and there's different ways of getting people out. And it's not always the case that they just have to get the ball to the base before you.
 and then there will be it being out, but that's going into too much detail for this quick overview. So meanwhile the defense is trying to get you out, and if they get three outs, then that means they get to go up to bat and they get to try to hit and score runs. Okay, so that's basically the premise of baseball, the sport. Now let's talk about the game for a minute. The game is divided into
 nine innings, okay? So you have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and nine. Nine innings, they're basically like periods. It's just segmenting the game in a way that makes sense. And in each inning, there are two halves. One where the offense is on, or one where one team is on offense, and the other where the other team is on offense. It changes from one inning to one half
 to the next half inning when one team, the team that's on defense gets three out. Okay? And until they get three outs, your team can bat and get on base, get hits, and score runs. At the end of the game, the score is tallied, and whoever has more runs wins the game. If the game is tied after nine innings, you keep playing until whoever scores...
 more at the end of a full inning wins. All right, now for those of you who know baseball, you know there's a lot more rules that basically erase everything I just said or there are addendums and different situations that change everything, but this is the basics of baseball. I hope you enjoyed this chalkboard lesson. If you want more of this and you want to dive deeper into the sport of baseball, continue watching.
 my free lessons and please check out the full course. You can find out more on the YouTube channel, you can find it out more on video school online.com or my Udemy profile page. Thanks a lot and we'll see you in the next lesson. Bye.
